Add info on Tenderly (#1006)
Consensys/doc.linea: docs/get-started/how-to/verify-smart-contract/tenderly.mdx

---
title: Tenderly

> description: Tenderly is a comprehensive Web3 development infrastructure that enables developers to build, test, and monitor decentralized applications with support for Virtual TestNets and contract verification using both Hardhat and Foundry frameworks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Development infrastructure for building, testing, and monitoring dapps.
```

Descriptions need to be shorter in order to fit onto social cards, this is a suggestion, so feel free to modify

---

> # Tenderly 

Reviewer: You can remove this line — Docusaurus will pull the title from the front matter (line 2)

> [Tenderly](https://tenderly.co?mtm_campaign=ext-docs&mtm_kwd=linea) is a full-stack Web3 development infrastructure that helps developers build, stage, test, and monitor decentralized applications. It provides Virtual TestNets for staging and testing in mainnet-like environments, with public and private verification support for both Hardhat and Foundry.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Tenderly](https://tenderly.co?mtm_campaign=ext-docs&mtm_kwd=linea) is a full-stack web3 development infrastructure that helps developers build, stage, test, and monitor decentralized applications. It provides Virtual TestNets for staging and testing in mainnet-like environments, with public and private verification support for both Hardhat and Foundry.
```

## Create a Virtual TestNet
Both Hardhat and Foundry examples will use a Virtual TestNet as contract deployment and staging infrastructure.

Provision a [new Virtual TestNet](https://docs.tenderly.co/virtual-testnets/quickstart?mtm_campaign=ext-docs&mtm_kwd=linea) and place the RPC URL in the variable:

```bash
export TENDERLY_VIRTUAL_TESTNET_RPC_URL=...
```

## Foundry verification

> To verify contracts with Foundry, follow the instructions in the [Tenderly documentation](https://docs.tenderly.co/contract-verification/foundry?mtm_campaign=ext-docs&mtm_kwd=linea). Tenderly offers etherscan-like verification API so all you need to do is use the correct [verification url](https://docs.tenderly.co/contract-verification#verification-on-tenderly-development-infrastructure??mtm_campaign=ext-docs&mtm_kwd=linea).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To verify contracts with Foundry, follow the instructions in the [Tenderly documentation](https://docs.tenderly.co/contract-verification/foundry?mtm_campaign=ext-docs&mtm_kwd=linea). Tenderly offers etherscan-like verification API so all you need to do is use the correct [verification URL](https://docs.tenderly.co/contract-verification#verification-on-tenderly-development-infrastructure??mtm_campaign=ext-docs&mtm_kwd=linea).
```

:::note

> When working with Virtual TestNets, in case you use a custom chain ID, you also must [extend `foundry.toml`](https://docs.tenderly.co/contract-verification/foundry#extend-foundrytoml?mtm_campaign=ext-docs&mtm_kwd=linea) with information for the custom chain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When working with Virtual TestNets, if you use a custom chain ID, you must also [extend `foundry.toml`](https://docs.tenderly.co/contract-verification/foundry#extend-foundrytoml?mtm_campaign=ext-docs&mtm_kwd=linea) with information for the custom chain.
```

  --private-key $DEPLOYER_PRIVATE_KEY  \
  --verify \
  --verifier-url $TENDERLY_VERIFIER_URL

```

**2. `forge script` verification**
```bash
TENDERLY_VERIFIER_URL=$TENDERLY_VIRTUAL_TESTNET_RPC_URL/verify/etherscan

forge script script/Counter.s.sol:CounterScript \
  --rpc-url $TENDERLY_VIRTUAL_TESTNET_RPC_URL \
  --private-key $DEPLOYER_PRIVATE_KEY  \
  --etherscan-api-key $TENDERLY_ACCESS_TOKEN \
  --broadcast \
  --verify \
  --verifier-url $TENDERLY_VERIFIER_URL \
  --slow
```

**3. `forge verify` verification**
```bash
TENDERLY_VERIFIER_URL=$TENDERLY_VIRTUAL_TESTNET_RPC_URL/verify/etherscan

forge verify-contract $COUNTER_ADDRESS  \
  Counter \
  --etherscan-api-key $TENDERLY_ACCESS_TOKEN \
  --verifier-url $TENDERLY_VERIFIER_URL \
  --watch
```

## Hardhat verification

To verify contracts with both `hardhat-verify` and `hardhat-ignition`, follow the instructions in the [Tenderly documentation](https://docs.tenderly.co/contract-verification/hardhat?mtm_campaign=ext-docs&mtm_kwd=linea).

**1. Install Tenderly CLI**

Install the [Tenderly CLI](https://github.com/Tenderly/tenderly-cli) and follow the prompts of `tenderly login`:

```bash

> brew tap tenderly/tenderly

Reviewer: it might be useful to add instructions for non-MacOS users to install

brew install tenderly
tenderly login
```

> **2. Set up hardhat**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**2. Set up Hardhat**
```
